 
What Predicts Academic Ability
One of the things you have to understand about creative people, is they continually step outside the domain of evaluation structures. Right, so if your going to evaluate the performance of a 100 professors on their lecturing ability. Well, you kindoff have to measure what's common among all the professors in order to come up with the standards or evaluation. Well, that means you won't be able to use tat structure to evaluate a particular creative professor, because he or she is going to so something so different, that is won't show up on the evaluation measure.
So one of the things that happens is science is that science tends to progress incrementally, rather than in great leaps. Now and then someone comes along and blows the structure of a science and advances it ridiculously, like Einstein. Most of the time your in a discipline and you understand the discipline. And then once you have developed an understanding of the discipline, you know what the next micro-question is and that should be answered.
Part of the reason that science is so powerful, is that it allows people who aren't genius level creative to make real advances in the generation of knowledge. One tiny microstep at a time. So it turns out to be conscientious is the utimate predictor of graduate student performance. And so creativity is a high risk, high rewards game. And so your much better of to find a functioning entity and to opperate as a cog within it, as long as the entity keeps functioning.
Because if your creative and you go of on tangents all the time. There's some probability that one of the tangents is exactly what is needed at the time and your going to become hyper successful. But there's much more probability that even though some of your ideas might be highly valuable. The probability that this is the right time and place, is extremely low.
So to produce a creative, successful product for instance in the marketplace. You have to have a ridiculous combination of creativity, to generate new ideas. And then a network around you of people who have skills that you don't. And then the production of a product that's actually in demand by the marketplace at exactly that moment. And that someone else hasn't already done better.
